Chronic kidney disease is a condition in which the kidneys are damaged for more than a few months.

The kidneys remove waste and extra fluid from the blood.

The kidneys remove waste from the body through urine.

The kidneys help control blood pressure.

The kidneys help maintain salt and mineral balance in the body.

The kidneys help the body make red blood cells.

The kidneys help keep bones strong.

Chronic kidney disease may not cause symptoms in its early stages.

A person may have chronic kidney disease without feeling sick.

Many people do not know they have kidney disease until it becomes advanced.

Chronic kidney disease can cause a buildup of waste in the blood.

Chronic kidney disease can cause fluid to build up in the body.

Chronic kidney disease can cause acids to build up in the blood.

Chronic kidney disease can cause potassium to build up in the blood.

Chronic kidney disease can cause phosphate to build up in the blood.

Symptoms of chronic kidney disease often develop slowly.

Advanced chronic kidney disease can cause nausea.

Advanced chronic kidney disease can cause vomiting.

Advanced chronic kidney disease can cause loss of appetite.

Advanced chronic kidney disease can cause fatigue.

Advanced chronic kidney disease can cause weakness.

Advanced chronic kidney disease can cause sleep problems.

Advanced chronic kidney disease can cause decreased mental sharpness.

Chronic kidney disease can cause high blood pressure that is difficult to control.

Fluid buildup in the lungs can cause shortness of breath in advanced kidney disease.

Chronic kidney disease has five main stages.

Kidney disease stages are determined using a blood test called eGFR.

eGFR measures how well the kidneys filter blood.

eGFR measures the amount of blood filtered by the kidneys each minute.

A lower eGFR means that the kidneys are working less well.

Stage 1 kidney disease has an eGFR of 90 or above.

Stage 2 kidney disease has an eGFR of 60 to 89.

Stage 3a kidney disease has an eGFR of 45 to 59.

Stage 3b kidney disease has an eGFR of 30 to 44.

Stage 4 kidney disease has an eGFR of 15 to 29.

Stage 5 kidney disease has an eGFR below 15.

Stage 5 kidney disease is kidney failure.

End-stage kidney disease occurs when kidney function is no longer sufficient to keep a person alive.

End-stage kidney disease occurs when eGFR is below 15.

Protein in the urine can be used as part of kidney disease evaluation and staging.

Small amounts of blood in the urine can be a sign of kidney problems.

Kidney disease can be detected using blood tests.

Kidney disease can be detected using urine tests.

Blood tests can measure how well the kidneys are working.

Urine tests can check for protein in the urine.

Urine tests can check for blood in the urine.

Ultrasound can be used to examine the kidneys.

CT scans can be used to examine the kidneys.

Treatment for chronic kidney disease aims to slow further kidney damage.

Treatment often focuses on managing the cause of kidney damage.

Kidney damage can continue to worsen even after the underlying cause has been treated.

Chronic kidney disease can progress to kidney failure.

End-stage kidney failure can be fatal without treatment.

Kidney transplantation can be used to treat end-stage kidney failure.

Dialysis can perform some of the functions of the kidneys.

Long-standing high blood pressure can increase the risk of kidney disease.

Diabetes can increase the risk of kidney disease.

Autoimmune diseases such as lupus can cause kidney damage.

People with conditions that increase their risk of kidney disease may need regular kidney checkups.

People at increased risk of kidney disease may need regular blood tests.

People at increased risk of kidney disease may need regular urine tests.

Regular kidney monitoring may be done every 6 to 12 months.

People with possible kidney problems may be referred to a nephrologist.

A nephrologist is a doctor who specializes in kidney diseases.